it's not that easy to buy shoes as a
vegan and recently my girlfriend and I
were in a shoe shop together that was in
Detroit Detroit Michigan USA hey and I
was trying on a pair of shoes you know
you know and they're vegan you know
they're vegan and running shoes hasn't
you know feel okay but I mean it's kind
of mushy it's not too stable let me put
it this way I said I just said flat I
wasn't joking around I said you know I
really wouldn't want to be in a
fistfight in this pair of shoes and the
guy selling the shoes laughed and he was
he was a very very morbidly obese guy
I'm sorry I'm not I'm not joking when I
say that but he was he was so overweight
that you know really his life was in
danger it was at the point where you
know he he said himself he wears out his
shoes very quickly I think he has
trouble walking and standing because
he's that far overweight and he he
laughed and he asked me look you know
how often you get into fistfights no
obviously he's just trying to sell me
the pair of shoes now that wasn't my
point I didn't say to him like I'm
looking for a pair of shoes for a
fistfight or something I'm picking a
pair of shoes it counts my a probably
across my mind is this gonna be reliable
in some kind of you know predictable
worst-case scenario and a couple of
other youtubers have kind of asked me
about this because when I've talked
about why I work out the way I do why I
tried to do 200 push-ups a day
benchpress 200 pounds stay in a certain
kind of physical shape my reasons aren't
really about vanity or being attracted
with the opposite sex they aren't about
a lot of other things for me it is based
on a kind of ethic of preparedness for
the inevitability of violence and
unpredictable situations breaking out
around me this is a Cambodian scarf by
the way this is a nobody ever tried to
rob me in Cambodia nobody ever tried to
start a fistfight with me in Cambodia
but when I lived in Cambodia many other
people I knew got it too exactly those
situations being robbed being mugged you
know strong armed robbery being mugged
at gunpoint
having fistfights started with them even
I was living in couldn't being China
some of the guys got got kind of sort of
bullied and it never happened to me
there are different factors there
including the fact that I'm sober all
the time I drink zero alcohol but yeah I
I stayed prepared and we had a we had a
funny situation yesterday last night on
the bus and this guy he didn't start out
intending to start a fistfight with me
on the bus you know I don't even know if
this guy is crazy he's probably just a
lonely sad person what would you put his
age I'd maybe 25 thereabouts maybe 20
I'm okay 25 all right 25 year old guy
and I was actually interestingly what I
was talking to my girlfriend go
privately when my girlfriend is on my
right-hand side and in a normal indoor
voice I'm not shouting or anything I was
actually having a conversation with her
about the fact that during really
stressful times in my life when I had a
lot of work to do and a lot of problems
I would calm down and space out my work
by washing my hands more often they like
on the job at get up wash my hands look
in the mirror go outside dry my hands
that I try to kind of you know as the
kind of stress I wash my hands more
often than usual as a stress relieving
measure and for no particular reason oh
this guy leans over and says really
loudly hey were you just talking about
washing your hands I'm like yeah and he
asked the question has it ever thrown
battery acid on your hands no that's
right he specifically said how's your
girlfriend ever thrown battery acid on
your hands and my girlfriend sitting
right there that's who I'm talking to
and I laugh it's the most ridiculous
question ask a complete stranger on a
bus and I said as a joke
sure twice twice this week it happens
all the time I said why would you ask me
that why would you start a conversation
with a complete stranger on the bus
asking if his girlfriend has ever thrown
battery acid on his hands now the guy
could have taken that as a joke
could have been no big deal you know it
was a ridiculous situation but no he was
getting more and more aggravated and uh
you know it there's no point am i
repeating every line that each of us
said but you know a God at that point
where I said to him look you know I'm a
39 year old man I'm not here trying to
start a fistfight the public bus in
Victoria but if you want to get out of
the next stop with me you know we can
you know we can resolve it that way and
we can probably both end up in the
police station and do the whole bit you
know like you know you really want to
take it that far
and you know he was very angry and
before that sir I've got to say before
that I did apologize even though I had
done and said nothing wrong I don't want
to seem like I'm instigating a fistfight
here before that he you know he said
insulting things towards me and I
responded by saying you know what you're
right it's my fault I apologize you know
can we can we move on like you know but
I think I did that two or three times I
said look at that said you're right and
I apologized you're right I'm I'm
obnoxious it's my fault etc let's keep
it moving but that was not good enough
for him so look I'm sorry there's no
real punch line to this story it's
really it's really a nothing story and
you did yeah bizarrely he got off at the
same but he showed it angrily when we
got off of the bus no because I said it
said to him already look if you want to
get off of the same bus stop as su you
can and he was saying and selling things
he said like oh you're a real tough guy
you better keep walking like this kind
of crap you know and then so you know we
got off the bus and then hilariously he
got off the bus also when he sat there
on the bus shelter because I guess he
didn't want to walk but you know the
tragedy we all live with sometimes you
lose touch that some people lose sight
of it is that you know peace is the
shadow of war peace order and good
government are all created by fear and
enforcement and you know an awareness of
the danger though not the difficulty
of breaking the laws that govern our
daily life and you know I don't have
anything against the people who go to
the gym to work out for other reasons
obviously some people go to the gym to
meet members the opposite sex or meet
members names nothing wrong with it
nothing wrong with that at all but for
myself as someone who's devoted himself
you know as a hobby into some extent as
a career to studying political history
and just political reality somebody who
cares about making the world a better
place I'm really in touch at all times
the extent to which peace is in the
shadow of war and these kinds of things
fistfights can break out in the middle
of nowhere for no good reason and as my
generation my generation used to say I'm
always on my my PS and QS to watch out
for these things before they escalate
before they pop off